
[Page S1129]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

  SA 4997. Ms. ERNST submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2471, to measure the progress of post-disaster 
recovery and efforts to address corruption, governance, rule of law, 
and media freedoms in Haiti; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

DIVISION __--PROVIDING REPORTS ON INFLATIONS COSTS AND ECONOMIC IMPACT 
                                  ACT

     SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Providing Reports on 
     Inflation Costs and Economic Impact Act'' or the ``PRICE 
     Act''.

     SEC. 2. POINT OF ORDER REQUIRING AN INFLATION IMPACT REPORT 
                   WITH ANY LEGISLATION THAT MAKES DISCRETIONARY 
                   APPROPRIATIONS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report making 
     discretionary appropriations (as defined in section 250(c) of 
     the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     (2 U.S.C. 900(c))) unless an inflation impact report by the 
     Congressional Budget Office with respect to the measure is 
     submitted for publication in the Congressional Record, 
     including an analysis of the impact the measure would have 
     on--
       (1) the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers 
     published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department 
     of Labor;
       (2) the Employment Cost Index for private industry workers 
     published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics; and
       (3) the purchasing power of consumers, including a 
     comparison of the impact described in paragraph (1) and the 
     impact described in paragraph (2).
       (b) Supermajority Waiver and Appeals.--
       (1) Waiver.--This section may be waived or suspended in the 
     Senate only by the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (2) Appeals.--Appeals in the Senate from the decisions of 
     the Chair relating to any provision of this section shall be 
     limited to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and 
     controlled by, the appellant and the manager of the bill or 
     joint resolution, as the case may be. An affirmative vote of 
     three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and 
     sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling 
     of the Chair on a point of order raised under this section.
                                 ______



