
[Pages S3085-S3094]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

  SA 5120. Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for Mr. Hagerty (for himself and Mr. 
Warner)) proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 4346, making 
appropriations for Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; as follows:

        Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:
       That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
     in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal 
     year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes, 
     namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     United States Marshals Service

                         salaries and expenses

       For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
     $10,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, 
     for expenses necessary to address threats to the Supreme 
     Court of the United States.

                                TITLE II

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

       For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
     $9,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for 
     expenses necessary to address threats to the Supreme Court of 
     the United States.

                               TITLE III

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

       Sec. 301.  Each amount appropriated or made available by 
     this Act is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for 
     the fiscal year involved.
       Sec. 302.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 303.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the 
     additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations 
     accounts shall be available under the authorities and 
     conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts for 
     fiscal year 2022.
       Sec. 304.  Each amount provided by this Act is designated 
     by Congress as being for an

[[Page S3086]]

     emergency requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) and 
     section 4001(b) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the 
     concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022.
        This Act may be cited as the ``Supreme Court Security 
     Funding Act of 2022''.
                                 ------
                                 
  SA 5121. Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr. Barrasso) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 5099 proposed by Mr. 
Schumer (for Mr. Murphy (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. 
Tillis)) to the bill S. 2938, to designate the United States Courthouse 
and Federal Building located at 111 North Adams Street in Tallahassee, 
Florida, as the ``Joseph Woodrow Hatchett United States Courthouse and 
Federal Building'', and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on 
the table; as follows:

        In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Safe Kids, 
     Safe Schools, Safe Communities Act of 2022''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Reauthorization and improvements to NICS.
Sec. 4. Availability of records to NICS.
Sec. 5. Reports and certifications to Congress.
Sec. 6. Increasing Federal prosecution of gun violence.
Sec. 7. Prosecution of felons and fugitives who attempt to illegally 
              purchase firearms.
Sec. 8. Limitation on operations by the Department of Justice.
Sec. 9. Straw purchasing of firearms.
Sec. 10. Increased penalties for lying and buying.
Sec. 11. Amendments to section 924(a).
Sec. 12. Amendments to section 924(h).
Sec. 13. Amendments to section 924(k).
Sec. 14. Multiple sales reports for rifles and shotguns.
Sec. 15. Study by the National Institutes of Justice and National 
              Academy of Sciences on the causes of mass shootings.
Sec. 16. Reports to Congress regarding ammunition purchases by Federal 
              agencies.
Sec. 17. Firearm commerce modernization.
Sec. 18. Firearm dealer access to law enforcement information.
Sec. 19. Interstate transportation of firearms or ammunition.
Sec. 20. Preventing duplicative grants.
Sec. 21. Project Sentry authorization.
Sec. 22. Project Child Safe authorization.
Sec. 23. Nonprofit security grant program.
Sec. 24. Luke and Alex School Safety Act.
Sec. 25. Reauthorization and expansion of the National Threat 
              Assessment Center of the Department of Homeland Security.
Sec. 26. Stop gun criminals.
Sec. 27. Amendments to enhance certain penalties.
Sec. 28. Securing schools.
Sec. 29. Improving school security through the COPS ON THE BEAT 
              program.
Sec. 30. Student mental health.
Sec. 31. Authorization and appropriations of funds.
Sec. 32. No Federal funding for abortions.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act--
       (1) the term ``agency'' has the meaning given the term in 
     section 551 of title 5, United States Code;
       (2) the term ``NICS'' means the National Instant Criminal 
     Background Check System; and
       (3) the term ``relevant Federal records'' means any record 
     demonstrating that a person is prohibited from possessing or 
     receiving a firearm under subsection (g) or (n) of section 
     922 of title 18, United States Code.

     SEC. 3. REAUTHORIZATION AND IMPROVEMENTS TO NICS.

       (a) In General.--Section 103 of the NICS Improvement 
     Amendments Act of 2007 (34 U.S.C. 40913) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and (g) as 
     subsections (f), (g), and (h), respectively;
       (2) by amending subsection (f), as so redesignated, to read 
     as follows:
       ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are 
     authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section 
     $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.''; 
     and
       (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
       ``(e) Accountability.--All grants awarded by the Attorney 
     General under this section shall be subject to the following 
     accountability provisions:
       ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `unresolved 
     audit finding' means a finding in the final audit report of 
     the Inspector General of the Department of Justice that the 
     audited grantee has utilized grant funds for an unauthorized 
     expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost that is not closed 
     or resolved within 12 months from the date when the final 
     audit report is issued.
       ``(2) Audits.--
       ``(A) In general.--Beginning in the first fiscal year 
     beginning after the date of enactment of this subsection, and 
     in each fiscal year thereafter, the Inspector General of the 
     Department of Justice shall conduct audits of recipients of 
     grants under this section to--
       ``(i) prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees; 
     and
       ``(ii) ensure that Federal, State, local, and Tribal 
     records that would disqualify an individual from purchasing 
     or owning a firearm under section 922 of title 18, United 
     States Code, are disclosed in a timely fashion.
       ``(B) Determination.--The Inspector General of the 
     Department of Justice shall determine the appropriate number 
     of grantees to be audited each year.
       ``(3) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the 
     Attorney General shall give priority to eligible applicants 
     that did not have an unresolved audit finding during the 3 
     fiscal years before submitting an application for a grant 
     under this section.''.
       (b) Modification of Eligibility Requirements.--The NICS 
     Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (34 U.S.C. 40902 et seq.) 
     is amended--
       (1) in section 102(b)(1) (34 U.S.C. 40912(b)(1))--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``subparagraph (C)'' 
     and inserting ``subparagraph (B)'';
       (B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
       (C) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B);
       (2) in section 103(a)(1) (34 U.S.C. 40913(a)(1)), by 
     striking ``and subject to section 102(b)(1)(B)''; and
       (3) in section 104(d) (34 U.S.C. 40914(d)), by striking 
     ``section 102(b)(1)(C)'' and inserting ``section 
     102(b)(1)(B)''.

     SEC. 4. AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS TO NICS.

       (a) Guidance.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall issue 
     guidance regarding--
       (1) the identification and sharing of relevant Federal 
     records; and
       (2) submission of the relevant Federal records to NICS.
       (b) Prioritization of Records.--Each agency that possesses 
     relevant Federal records shall prioritize providing the 
     relevant information contained in the relevant Federal 
     records to NICS on a regular and ongoing basis in accordance 
     with the guidance issued by the Attorney General under 
     subsection (a).
       (c) Reports.--Not later than 60 days after the Attorney 
     General issues guidance under subsection (a), the head of 
     each agency shall submit a report to the Attorney General 
     that--
       (1) advises whether the agency possesses relevant Federal 
     records; and
       (2) describes the implementation plan of the agency for 
     making the relevant information contained in relevant Federal 
     records available to NICS in a manner consistent with 
     applicable law.
       (d) Determination of Relevance.--The Attorney General shall 
     resolve any dispute regarding whether--
       (1) agency records are relevant Federal records; and
       (2) the relevant Federal records of an agency should be 
     made available to NICS.

     SEC. 5. REPORTS AND CERTIFICATIONS TO CONGRESS.

       (a) NICS Reports.--Not later than October 1, 2022, and 
     every year thereafter, the head of each agency that possesses 
     relevant Federal records shall submit a report to Congress 
     that includes--
       (1) a description of the relevant Federal records possessed 
     by the agency that can be shared with NICS in a manner 
     consistent with applicable law;
       (2) the number of relevant Federal records the agency 
     submitted to NICS during the reporting period;
       (3) efforts made to increase the percentage of relevant 
     Federal records possessed by the agency that are submitted to 
     NICS;
       (4) any obstacles to increasing the percentage of relevant 
     Federal records possessed by the agency that are submitted to 
     NICS;
       (5) measures put in place to provide notice and programs 
     for relief from disabilities as required under the NICS 
     Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (34 U.S.C. 40902 et seq.) 
     if the agency makes qualifying adjudications relating to the 
     mental health of an individual;
       (6) measures put in place to correct, modify, or remove 
     records available to NICS when the basis on which the records 
     were made available no longer applies; and
       (7) additional steps that will be taken during the 1-year 
     period after the submission of the report to improve the 
     processes by which relevant Federal records are--
       (A) identified;
       (B) made available to NICS; and
       (C) corrected, modified, or removed from NICS.
       (b) Certifications.--
       (1) In general.--The annual report requirement in 
     subsection (a) shall not apply to an agency that, as part of 
     a report required to be submitted under subsection (a), 
     provides certification that the agency has--
       (A) made available to NICS relevant Federal records that 
     can be shared in a manner consistent with applicable law;
       (B) a plan to make any relevant Federal records available 
     to NICS and a description of that plan; and
       (C) a plan to update, modify, or remove records 
     electronically from NICS not less than quarterly as required 
     by the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (34 U.S.C. 
     40902 et seq.) and a description of that plan.
       (2) Frequency.--Each agency that is not required to submit 
     annual reports under

[[Page S3087]]

     paragraph (1) shall submit an annual certification to 
     Congress attesting that the agency continues to submit 
     relevant Federal records to NICS and has corrected, modified, 
     or removed records available to NICS when the basis on which 
     the records were made available no longer applies.
       (c) Reports to Congress on Firearms Prosecutions.--
       (1) Report to congress.--Beginning February 1, 2023, and on 
     February 1 of each year thereafter through 2032, the Attorney 
     General shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary and 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report of information gathered under this 
     subsection during the fiscal year that ended on September 30 
     of the preceding year.
       (2) Subject of annual report.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall 
     require each component of the Department of Justice, 
     including each United States Attorney's Office, to furnish 
     for the purposes of the report described in paragraph (1), 
     information relating to any case presented to the Department 
     of Justice for review or prosecution, in which the objective 
     facts of the case provide probable cause to believe that 
     there has been a violation of sections 922 and 924 of title 
     18, United States Code, and section 5861 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986.
       (3) Elements of annual report.--With respect to each case 
     described in paragraph (2), the report submitted under 
     paragraph (1) shall include information indicating--
       (A) whether in any such case, a decision has been made not 
     to charge an individual with a violation of sections 922 and 
     924 of title 18, United States Code, and section 5861 of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any other violation of 
     Federal criminal law;
       (B) in any case described in subparagraph (A), a 
     description of why no charge was filed under sections 922 and 
     924 of title 18, United States Code, and section 5861 of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
       (C) whether in any case described in paragraph (2), an 
     indictment, information, or other charge has been brought 
     against any person, or the matter is pending;
       (D) whether, in the case of an indictment, information, or 
     other charge described in subparagraph (C), the charging 
     document contains a count or counts alleging a violation of 
     sections 922 and 924 of title 18, United States Code, and 
     section 5861 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
       (E) in any case described in subparagraph (D) in which the 
     charging document contains a count or counts alleging a 
     violation of sections 922 and 924 of title 18, United States 
     Code, and section 5861 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
     whether a plea agreement of any kind has been entered into 
     with such charged individual;
       (F) whether any plea agreement described in subparagraph 
     (E) required that the individual plead guilty, to enter a 
     plea of nolo contendere, or otherwise caused a court to enter 
     a conviction against that individual for a violation of 
     sections 922 and 924 of title 18, United States Code, and 
     section 5861 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
       (G) in any case described in subparagraph (F) in which the 
     plea agreement did not require that the individual plead 
     guilty, enter a plea of nolo contendere, or otherwise cause a 
     court to enter a conviction against that individual for a 
     violation of sections 922 and 924 of title 18, United States 
     Code, and section 5861 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
     identification of the charges to which that individual did 
     plead guilty;
       (H) in the case of an indictment, information, or other 
     charge described in subparagraph (C), in which the charging 
     document contains a count or counts alleging a violation of 
     sections 922 and 924 of title 18, United States Code, and 
     section 5861 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the result 
     of any trial of such charges (guilty, not guilty, mistrial);
       (I) in the case of an indictment, information, or other 
     charge described in subparagraph (C), in which the charging 
     document did not contain a count or counts alleging a 
     violation of sections 922 and 924 of title 18, United States 
     Code, and section 5861 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
     the nature of the other charges brought and the result of any 
     trial of such other charges as have been brought (guilty, not 
     guilty, mistrial);
       (J) the number of persons who attempted to purchase a 
     firearm but were denied because of a background check 
     conducted in accordance with section 922(t) of title 18, 
     United States Code; and
       (K) the number of prosecutions conducted in relation to 
     persons described in subparagraph (J).

     SEC. 6. INCREASING FEDERAL PROSECUTION OF GUN VIOLENCE.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish 
     in jurisdictions specified in subsection (c) a program that 
     meets the requirements of subsection (b), to be known as the 
     ``Nationwide Project Exile Expansion''.
       (b) Program Elements.--Each program established under 
     subsection (a) shall, for the jurisdiction concerned--
       (1) provide for coordination with State and local law 
     enforcement officials in the identification of violations of 
     Federal firearms laws with an emphasis on the use of firearms 
     in violation of Federal law in the commission of crimes of 
     violence, Federal drug trafficking offenses, and Federal 
     crimes of terrorism;
       (2) provide for the establishment of agreements with State 
     and local law enforcement officials for the referral to 
     Federal law enforcement, including the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation and the Drug Enforcement Administration, and 
     the United States Attorney for prosecution of persons 
     arrested for violations of section 922 or section 924 of 
     title 18, United States Code, or section 5861 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986, relating to firearms;
       (3) provide for the establishment of multijurisdictional 
     task forces, coordinated by the Executive Office of the 
     United States attorneys to investigate and prosecute illegal 
     straw purchasing rings that purchase firearms in one 
     jurisdiction and transfer them to another;
       (4) require that the United States attorney designate not 
     less than 1 assistant United States attorney to prosecute 
     violations of Federal firearms laws; and
       (5) ensure that each person referred to the United States 
     attorney for use of firearms in violation of Federal law in 
     the commission of crimes of violence, Federal drug 
     trafficking offenses, or other Federal crimes of terrorism 
     under paragraph (2) be charged with a violation of the most 
     serious Federal firearm offense consistent with the act 
     committed.
       (c) Covered Jurisdictions.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the 
     jurisdictions specified in this subsection are--
       (A) the 10 jurisdictions with a population equal to or 
     greater than 100,000 persons that had the highest total 
     number of homicides according to the uniform crime report of 
     the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the most recent year 
     available;
       (B) the 5 jurisdictions with such a population, other than 
     the jurisdictions covered by paragraph (1), with the highest 
     per capita rate of homicide according to the uniform crime 
     report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the most 
     recent year available; and
       (C) the 3 tribal jurisdictions that have the highest 
     homicide crime rates, as determined by the Attorney General.
       (2) Limitation.--The 15 jurisdictions described in 
     subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall not include any jurisdiction 
     other than those within the 50 States.
       (d) Annual Reports.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
     of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
     Attorney General shall submit to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of 
     the House of Representatives a report containing the 
     following information:
       (1) The number of individuals indicted for such violations 
     of Federal firearms laws during that year by reason of the 
     program.
       (2) The increase or decrease in the number of individuals 
     indicted for such violations of Federal firearms laws during 
     that year by reason of the program when compared with the 
     year preceding that year.
       (3) The number of individuals held without bond in 
     anticipation of prosecution by reason of the program.
       (4) To the extent the information is available, the average 
     length of prison sentence of the individuals convicted of 
     violations of Federal firearms laws by reason of the program.
       (5) The number of multijurisdiction task forces established 
     and the number of individuals arrested, indicted, convicted 
     or acquitted of charges for violations of the specific crimes 
     listed in subsection (b)(2).
       (6) The number of individuals suspected of violating a 
     Federal firearm law for whom charges were not filed and a 
     statement of why charges were not filed.
       (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
       (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
     carry out the program under this section $150,000,000 for 
     each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025, which shall be used 
     for salaries and expenses of assistant United States 
     attorneys.
       (2) Use of funds for assistant united states attorneys.--
     The assistant United States attorneys hired using amounts 
     authorized to be appropriated under paragraph (1) shall 
     prosecute violations of Federal firearms laws in accordance 
     with subsection (b)(2).

     SEC. 7. PROSECUTION OF FELONS AND FUGITIVES WHO ATTEMPT TO 
                   ILLEGALLY PURCHASE FIREARMS.

       (a) Task Force.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established a task force 
     within the Department of Justice, which shall be known as the 
     Felon and Fugitive Firearm Task Force (referred to in this 
     section as the ``Task Force''), to strengthen the efforts of 
     the Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute cases 
     of convicted felons and fugitives from justice who illegally 
     attempt to purchase a firearm.
       (2) Membership.--The members of the Task Force shall be--
       (A) the Deputy Attorney General, who shall serve as the 
     Chairperson of the Task Force;
       (B) the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal 
     Division;
       (C) the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; 
     and
       (D) such other officers or employees of the Department of 
     Justice as the Attorney General may designate.
       (3) Duties.--The Task Force shall--
       (A) provide direction for the investigation and prosecution 
     of cases of convicted felons and fugitives from justice 
     attempting to illegally purchase a firearm; and
       (B) provide recommendations to the Attorney General 
     relating to--

[[Page S3088]]

       (i) the allocation and reallocation of resources of the 
     Department of Justice for investigation and prosecution of 
     cases of convicted felons and fugitives from justice 
     attempting to illegally purchase a firearm;
       (ii) enhancing cooperation among agencies and entities of 
     the Federal Government in the investigation and prosecution 
     of cases of convicted felons and fugitives from justice 
     attempting to illegally purchase a firearm;
       (iii) enhancing cooperation among Federal, State, and local 
     authorities responsible for the investigation and prosecution 
     of cases of convicted felons and fugitives from justice 
     attempting to illegally purchase a firearm; and
       (iv) changes in rules, regulations, or policy to improve 
     the effective investigation and prosecution of cases of 
     convicted felons and fugitives from justice attempting to 
     illegally purchase a firearm.
       (4) Meetings.--The Task Force shall meet not less than once 
     a year.
       (5) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
     date that is 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
       (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized 
     to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for 
     each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

     SEC. 8. LIMITATION ON OPERATIONS BY THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   JUSTICE.

       The Department of Justice, and any of the law enforcement 
     coordinate agencies of the Department of Justice, shall not 
     conduct any operation where a Federal firearms licensee is 
     directed, instructed, enticed, or otherwise encouraged by the 
     Department of Justice to sell a firearm to an individual if 
     the Department of Justice, or a coordinate agency, knows or 
     has reasonable cause to believe that such an individual is 
     purchasing on behalf of another for an illegal purpose unless 
     the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, or the 
     Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division 
     personally reviews and approves the operation, in writing, 
     and determines that the agency has prepared an operational 
     plan that includes sufficient safeguards to prevent firearms 
     from being transferred to third parties without law 
     enforcement taking reasonable steps to lawfully interdict 
     those firearms.

     SEC. 9. STRAW PURCHASING OF FIREARMS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 44 of title 18, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 932. Straw purchasing of firearms

       ``(a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
       ``(1) the term `crime of violence' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 924(c)(3);
       ``(2) the term `drug trafficking crime' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 924(c)(2); and
       ``(3) the term `Federal crime of terrorism' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 2332b(g).
       ``(b) Offense.--It shall be unlawful for any person to--
       ``(1) purchase or otherwise obtain a firearm, which has 
     been shipped, transported, or received in interstate or 
     foreign commerce, for or on behalf of any other person who 
     the person purchasing or otherwise obtaining the firearm 
     knows--
       ``(A) is prohibited from possessing or receiving a firearm 
     under subsection (g) or (n) of section 922;
       ``(B) intends to use, carry, possess, or sell or otherwise 
     dispose of the firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence, 
     a drug trafficking crime, or a Federal crime of terrorism;
       ``(C) intends to engage in conduct that would constitute a 
     crime of violence, a drug trafficking crime, or a Federal 
     crime of terrorism if the conduct had occurred within the 
     United States; or
       ``(D) is not a resident of any State and is not a citizen 
     or lawful permanent resident of the United States; or
       ``(2) willfully procure another to engage in conduct 
     described in paragraph (1).
       ``(c) Penalty.--Any person who violates subsection (b) 
     shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 15 
     years, or both.

     ``Sec. 933. Trafficking in firearms

       ``(a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
       ``(1) the term `crime of violence' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 924(c)(3);
       ``(2) the term `drug trafficking crime' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 924(c)(2); and
       ``(3) the term `Federal crime of terrorism' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 2332b(g).
       ``(b) Offense.--It shall be unlawful for any person to--
       ``(1) ship, transport, transfer, or otherwise dispose of 
     two or more firearms to another person in or otherwise 
     affecting interstate or foreign commerce, if the transferor 
     knows that the use, carrying, or possession of a firearm by 
     the transferee would violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 
     922, or constitute a crime of violence, a drug trafficking 
     crime, or a Federal crime of terrorism;
       ``(2) receive from another person two or more firearms in 
     or otherwise affecting interstate or foreign commerce, if the 
     recipient--
       ``(A) knows that such receipt would violate subsection (g) 
     or (n) of section 922; or
       ``(B) intends to use the firearm in furtherance of a crime 
     of violence, a drug trafficking crime, or a Federal crime of 
     terrorism; or
       ``(3) attempt or conspire to commit the conduct described 
     in paragraph (1) or (2).
       ``(c) Penalties.--
       ``(1) In general.--Any person who violates subsection (b) 
     shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 15 
     years, or both.
       ``(2) Organizer.--If a violation of subsection (b) is 
     committed by a person acting in concert with other persons as 
     an organizer, leader, supervisor, or manager, the person 
     shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 20 
     years, or both.
       ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in section 922 or 932 
     shall be construed to--
       ``(1) prohibit a person who is eligible to receive and 
     possess firearms from purchasing a firearm for another person 
     who is eligible to receive and possess firearms; or
       ``(2) prohibit or limit purchases or transfers of legally 
     manufactured firearms between individuals who are not 
     prohibited from possessing or receiving a firearm under 
     subsection (g) or (n) of section 922.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of 
     sections for chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 931 
     the following:

``932. Straw purchasing of firearms.
``933. Trafficking in firearms.''.
       (c) Directive to the Sentencing Commission.--Pursuant to 
     its authority under section 994 of title 28, United States 
     Code, and in accordance with this section, the United States 
     Sentencing Commission shall review and amend its guidelines 
     and policy statements to ensure that persons convicted of an 
     offense under section 932 or 933 of title 18, United States 
     Code, and other offenses applicable to the straw purchases 
     and firearms trafficking of firearms are subject to increased 
     penalties in comparison to those currently provided by the 
     guidelines and policy statements for such straw purchasing 
     and firearms trafficking offenses. In its review, the 
     Commission shall consider, in particular, an appropriate 
     amendment to reflect the intent of Congress that straw 
     purchasers without significant criminal histories receive 
     sentences that are sufficient to deter participation in such 
     activities. The Commission shall also review and amend its 
     guidelines and policy statements to reflect the intent of 
     Congress that a person convicted of an offense under section 
     932 or 933 of title 18, United States Code, who is affiliated 
     with a gang, cartel, organized crime ring, or other such 
     enterprise should be subject to higher penalties than an 
     otherwise unaffiliated individual.

     SEC. 10. INCREASED PENALTIES FOR LYING AND BUYING.

       Section 924(a)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended in the undesignated matter following subparagraph (D) 
     by striking ``five years'' and inserting the following: ``5 
     years (or, in the case of a violation under subparagraph (A), 
     not more than 10 years)''.

     SEC. 11. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 924(A).

       Section 924(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(d), (g),''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(8) Whoever knowingly violates subsection (d), (g), or 
     (n) of section 922 shall be fined under this title, 
     imprisoned not more than 15 years, or both.''.

     SEC. 12. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 924(H).

       Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking subsection (h) and inserting the following:
       ``(h) Whoever knowingly receives or transfers a firearm or 
     ammunition, or attempts or conspires to do so, knowing that 
     such firearm or ammunition will be used to commit a crime of 
     violence (as defined in subsection (c)(3)), a drug 
     trafficking crime (as defined in subsection (c)(2)), a 
     Federal crime of terrorism (as defined in section 2332b(g)), 
     or a crime under the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 
     et seq.), the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
     U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), or the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin 
     Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), shall be imprisoned 
     not more than 15 years, fined in accordance with this title, 
     or both.''.

     SEC. 13. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 924(K).

       Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking subsection (k) and inserting the following:
       ``(k)(1) A person who, with intent to engage in or promote 
     conduct that--
       ``(A) is punishable under the Controlled Substances Act (21 
     U.S.C. 801 et seq.), the Controlled Substances Import and 
     Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951 et seq.), or chapter 705 of title 
     46;
       ``(B) violates any law of a State relating to any 
     controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the 
     Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802);
       ``(C) constitutes a crime of violence (as defined in 
     subsection (c)(3)); or
       ``(D) constitutes a Federal crime of terrorism (as defined 
     in section 2332b(g)),
     smuggles or knowingly brings into the United States, a 
     firearm or ammunition, or attempts or conspires to do so, 
     shall be imprisoned not more than 15 years, fined under this 
     title, or both.
       ``(2) A person who, with intent to engage in or to promote 
     conduct that--
       ``(A) would be punishable under the Controlled Substances 
     Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), the Controlled Substances Import 
     and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951 et seq.), or chapter 705 of 
     title 46, if the conduct had occurred within the United 
     States; or
       ``(B) would constitute a crime of violence (as defined in 
     subsection (c)(3)) or a Federal crime of terrorism (as 
     defined in section

[[Page S3089]]

     2332b(g)) for which the person may be prosecuted in a court 
     of the United States, if the conduct had occurred within the 
     United States,
     smuggles or knowingly takes out of the United States, a 
     firearm or ammunition, or attempts or conspires to do so, 
     shall be imprisoned not more than 15 years, fined under this 
     title, or both.''.

     SEC. 14. MULTIPLE SALES REPORTS FOR RIFLES AND SHOTGUNS.

       Section 923(g)(5) of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) The Attorney General may not require a licensee to 
     submit ongoing or periodic reporting of the sale or other 
     disposition of 2 or more rifles or shotguns during a 
     specified period of time.''.

     SEC. 15. STUDY BY THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF JUSTICE AND 
                   NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES ON THE CAUSES OF 
                   MASS SHOOTINGS.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Study.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall instruct 
     the Director of the National Institutes of Justice, to 
     conduct a peer-reviewed study to examine various sources and 
     causes of mass shootings including psychological factors, the 
     impact of violent video games, and other factors. The 
     Director shall enter into a contract with the National 
     Academy of Sciences to conduct this study jointly with an 
     independent panel of 5 experts appointed by the Academy.
       (2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which 
     the study required under paragraph (1) begins, the Directors 
     shall submit to Congress a report detailing the findings of 
     the study.
       (b) Issues Examined.--The study conducted under subsection 
     (a)(1) shall examine--
       (1) mental illness;
       (2) the availability of mental health and other resources 
     and strategies to help families detect and counter tendencies 
     toward violence;
       (3) the availability of mental health and other resources 
     at schools to help detect and counter tendencies of students 
     towards violence;
       (4) the extent to which perpetrators of mass shootings, 
     either alleged, convicted, deceased, or otherwise, played 
     violent or adult-themed video games and whether the 
     perpetrators of mass shootings discussed, planned, or used 
     violent or adult-themed video games in preparation of or to 
     assist in carrying out their violent actions;
       (5) familial relationships, including the level of 
     involvement and awareness of parents;
       (6) exposure to bullying; and
       (7) the extent to which perpetrators of mass shootings were 
     acting in a ``copycat'' manner based upon previous violent 
     events.

     SEC. 16. REPORTS TO CONGRESS REGARDING AMMUNITION PURCHASES 
                   BY FEDERAL AGENCIES.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, 
     shall report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
     the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the Chairmen and 
     Ranking Members of the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations and the Committees on the Judiciary, the House 
     Committee on Homeland Security, the Senate Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the House 
     Committee on Oversight and Reform, a report including--
       (1) details of all purchases of ammunition by each Federal 
     agency;
       (2) a summary of all purchases, solicitations, and 
     expenditures on ammunition by each Federal agency;
       (3) a summary of all the rounds of ammunition expended by 
     each Federal agency and a current listing of stockpiled 
     ammunition for each Federal agency; and
       (4) an estimate of future ammunition needs and purchases 
     for each Federal agency for the next fiscal year.

     SEC. 17. FIREARM COMMERCE MODERNIZATION.

       (a) Firearms Dispositions.--Section 922(b)(3) of title 18, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``located'' and inserting ``located or temporarily located''; 
     and
       (2) in subparagraph (A)--
       (A) by striking ``rifle or shotgun'' and inserting 
     ``firearm'';
       (B) by striking ``located'' and inserting ``located or 
     temporarily located''; and
       (C) by striking ``both such States'' and inserting ``the 
     State in which the transfer is conducted and the State of 
     residence of the transferee''.
       (b) Dealer Location.--Section 923 of title 18, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (j)--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``, and such 
     location is in the State which is specified on the license''; 
     and
       (B) in the last sentence--
       (i) by inserting ``transfer,'' after ``sell,''; and
       (ii) by striking ``Act,'' and all that follows and 
     inserting ``Act.''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(m) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to 
     prohibit the sale, transfer, delivery, or other disposition 
     of a firearm or ammunition--
       ``(1) by a person licensed under this chapter to another 
     person so licensed, at any location in any State; or
       ``(2) by a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or 
     licensed dealer to a person not licensed under this chapter, 
     at a temporary location described in subsection (j) in any 
     State.''.
       (c) Residence of United States Officers.--Section 921 of 
     title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking 
     subsection (b) and inserting the following:
       ``(b) For purposes of this chapter:
       ``(1) A member of the Armed Forces on active duty, or a 
     spouse of such a member, is a resident of--
       ``(A) the State in which the member or spouse maintains 
     legal residence;
       ``(B) the State in which the permanent duty station of the 
     member is located; and
       ``(C) the State in which the member maintains a place of 
     abode from which the member commutes each day to the 
     permanent duty station of the member.
       ``(2) An officer or employee of the United States (other 
     than a member of the Armed Forces) who is stationed outside 
     the United States for a period of more than 1 year, and a 
     spouse of such an officer or employee, is a resident of the 
     State in which the person maintains legal residence.''.

     SEC. 18. FIREARM DEALER ACCESS TO LAW ENFORCEMENT 
                   INFORMATION.

       (a) In General.--Section 103(b) of the Brady Handgun 
     Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901), is amended--
       (1) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) Voluntary background checks.--
       ``(A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of the Safe Kids, Safe Schools, Safe Communities 
     Act of 2022, the Attorney General shall promulgate 
     regulations allowing licensees to use the national instant 
     criminal background check system established under this 
     section for purposes of conducting voluntary, no fee 
     employment background checks on current or prospective 
     employees.
       ``(B) Notice.--Before conducting an employment background 
     check relating to an individual under subparagraph (A), a 
     licensee shall--
       ``(i) provide written notice to the individual that the 
     licensee intends to conduct the background check; and
       ``(ii) obtain consent to conduct the background check from 
     the individual in writing.
       ``(C) Exemption.--An employment background check conducted 
     by a licensee under subparagraph (A) shall not be governed by 
     the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.).
       ``(D) Appeal.--Any individual who is the subject of an 
     employment background check conducted by a licensee under 
     subparagraph (A) the result of which indicates that the 
     individual is prohibited from possessing a firearm or 
     ammunition pursuant to subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 
     of title 18, United States Code, may appeal the results of 
     the background check in the same manner and to the same 
     extent as if the individual had been the subject of a 
     background check relating to the transfer of a firearm.''.
       (b) Acquisition, Preservation, and Exchange of 
     Identification Records and Information.--Section 534 of title 
     28, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
       ``(5) provide a person licensed as an importer, 
     manufacturer, or dealer of firearms under chapter 44 of title 
     18 with information necessary to verify whether firearms 
     offered for sale to such licensees have been stolen.''; and
       (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, except for 
     dissemination authorized under subsection (a)(5) of this 
     section'' before the period.
       (c) Regulations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, and without regard to chapter 5 of 
     title 5, United States Code, the Attorney General shall 
     promulgate regulations allowing a person licensed as an 
     importer, manufacturer, or dealer of firearms under chapter 
     44 of title 18, United States Code, to receive access to 
     records of stolen firearms maintained by the National Crime 
     Information Center operated by the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation, solely for the purpose of voluntarily 
     verifying whether firearms offered for sale to such licensees 
     have been stolen.
       (d) Statutory Construction; Evidence.--
       (1) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
     amendments made by this section shall be construed--
       (A) to create a cause of action against any person licensed 
     as an importer, manufacturer, or dealer of firearms under 
     chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, or any other 
     person for any civil liability; or
       (B) to establish any standard of care.
       (2) Evidence.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     evidence regarding the use or non-use by a person licensed as 
     an importer, manufacturer, or dealer of firearms under 
     chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, of the systems, 
     information, or records made available under this section or 
     the amendments made by this section shall not be admissible 
     as evidence in any proceeding of any court, agency, board, or 
     other entity.

[[Page S3090]]

  


     SEC. 19. INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF FIREARMS OR AMMUNITION.

       (a) In General.--Section 926A of title 18, United States 
     Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 926A. Interstate transportation of firearms or 
       ammunition

       ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `transport' 
     includes staying in temporary lodging overnight, stopping for 
     food, fuel, vehicle maintenance, an emergency, medical 
     treatment, and any other activity incidental to the 
     transport.
       ``(b) Authorization.--Notwithstanding any provision of any 
     law (including a rule or regulation) of a State or any 
     political subdivision thereof, a person who is not prohibited 
     by this chapter from possessing, transporting, shipping, or 
     receiving a firearm or ammunition shall be entitled to--
       ``(1) transport a firearm for any lawful purpose from any 
     place where the person may lawfully possess, carry, or 
     transport the firearm to any other such place if, during the 
     transportation--
       ``(A) the firearm is unloaded; and
       ``(B)(i) if the transportation is by motor vehicle--
       ``(I) the firearm is not directly accessible from the 
     passenger compartment of the motor vehicle; or
       ``(II) if the motor vehicle is without a compartment 
     separate from the passenger compartment, the firearm is--

       ``(aa) in a locked container other than the glove 
     compartment or console; or
       ``(bb) secured by a secure gun storage or safety device; or

       ``(ii) if the transportation is by other means, the firearm 
     is in a locked container or secured by a secure gun storage 
     or safety device; and
       ``(2) transport ammunition for any lawful purpose from any 
     place where the person may lawfully possess, carry, or 
     transport the ammunition, to any other such place if, during 
     the transportation--
       ``(A) the ammunition is not loaded into a firearm; and
       ``(B)(i) if the transportation is by motor vehicle--
       ``(I) the ammunition is not directly accessible from the 
     passenger compartment of the motor vehicle; or
       ``(II) if the motor vehicle is without a compartment 
     separate from the passenger compartment, the ammunition is in 
     a locked container other than the glove compartment or 
     console; or
       ``(ii) if the transportation is by other means, the 
     ammunition is in a locked container.
       ``(c) State Law.--
       ``(1) Arrest authority.--A person who is transporting a 
     firearm or ammunition may not be--
       ``(A) arrested for violation of any law or any rule or 
     regulation of a State, or any political subdivision thereof, 
     relating to the possession, transportation, or carrying of 
     firearms or ammunition, unless there is probable cause to 
     believe that the transportation is not in accordance with 
     subsection (b); or
       ``(B) detained for violation of any law or any rule or 
     regulation of a State, or any political subdivision thereof, 
     relating to the possession, transportation, or carrying of 
     firearms or ammunition, unless there is reasonable suspicion 
     that the transportation is not in accordance with subsection 
     (b).
       ``(2) Prosecution.--
       ``(A) Burden of proof.--If a person asserts this section as 
     a defense in a criminal proceeding, the government shall bear 
     the burden of proving, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the 
     conduct of the person was not in accordance with subsection 
     (b).
       ``(B) Prevailing defendant.--If a person successfully 
     asserts this section as a defense in a criminal proceeding, 
     the court shall award the prevailing defendant reasonable 
     attorney's fees.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of 
     sections for chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 926A and 
     inserting the following:

``926A. Interstate transportation of firearms or ammunition.''.

     SEC. 20. PREVENTING DUPLICATIVE GRANTS.

       Section 1701 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10381) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(n) Preventing Duplicative Grants.--
       ``(1) In general.--Before the Attorney General awards a 
     grant to an applicant under this part, the Attorney General 
     shall compare potential grant awards with grants awarded 
     under part A or T to determine if duplicate grant awards are 
     awarded for the same purpose.
       ``(2) Report.--If the Attorney General awards duplicate 
     grants to the same applicant for the same purpose the 
     Attorney General shall submit to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of 
     the House of Representatives a report that includes--
       ``(A) a list of all duplicate grants awarded, including the 
     total dollar amount of any duplicate grants awarded; and
       ``(B) the reason the Attorney General awarded the duplicate 
     grants.''.

     SEC. 21. PROJECT SENTRY AUTHORIZATION.

       (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
     available, there is appropriated to the Attorney General, out 
     of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
     $9,000,000 to support Project Sentry, a Federal-State law 
     enforcement partnership to--
       (1) identify and prosecute juveniles who violate State and 
     Federal firearms laws and the adults who supply the juveniles 
     with firearms; and
       (2) hire an attorney for each United States attorney who 
     will focus on firearm crimes involving or affecting 
     juveniles, including school-related violence and trafficking 
     firearms to minors.
       (b) Additional Appropriations.--Of amounts made available 
     under section 31 of this Act, $20,000,000 shall be made 
     available to Project Sentry described in subsection (a) to 
     establish safe school task forces across the United States 
     that will--
       (1) prosecute and supervise juveniles who carry or use 
     firearms illegally; and
       (2) prosecute adults who illegally furnish firearms to the 
     juveniles described in paragraph (1).
       (c) Emergency Designation.--
       (1) In general.--The amounts provided under this section 
     are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 
     U.S.C. 933(g)).
       (2) Designation in the senate and the house.--This section 
     is designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     subsections (a) and (b) of section 4001 of S. Con. Res. 14 
     (117th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2022.

     SEC. 22. PROJECT CHILD SAFE AUTHORIZATION.

       (a) In General.--There is appropriated to the Attorney 
     General $75,000,000 for Child Safe, a program that will 
     provide funds to ensure child-safety locks are available for 
     every handgun in the United States.
       (b) Grants.--
       (1) In general.--Of the amounts made available under 
     subsection (a)--
       (A) $65,000,000 shall be used by the Assistant Attorney 
     General of the Office of Justice Programs to award grants to 
     State and local governments and private organizations to 
     provide locks for handguns in the United States, to be 
     distributed by local municipalities or private organizations; 
     and
       (B) $10,000,000 shall be used on administrative costs and 
     advertising, including a national toll-free hotline to make 
     sure all parents are aware of the program described in that 
     subsection.
       (2) Matching requirement.--
       (A) In general.--An entity receiving a grant under this 
     section shall provide non-Federal matching funds equal to not 
     less than 100 percent of the amount of the grant.
       (B) In-kind support.--Matching funds may include in-kind 
     support.
       (c) Emergency Designation.--
       (1) In general.--The amounts provided under this section 
     are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 
     U.S.C. 933(g)).
       (2) Designation in the senate and the house.--This section 
     is designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     subsections (a) and (b) of section 4001 of S. Con. Res. 14 
     (117th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2022.

     SEC. 23. NONPROFIT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM.

       Section 2009 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
     609a) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (e), by striking ``2020 through 2024'' 
     and inserting ``2023 through 2030'';
       (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (i);
       (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
       ``(f) Feedback.--
       ``(1) In general.--If the Administrator denies an 
     application for a grant under this section, not later than 
     120 days after the date of the denial, the Administrator 
     shall--
       ``(A) notify the applicant; and
       ``(B) provide an explanation for the denial.
       ``(2) Explanation.--An explanation described in paragraph 
     (1)(B) shall include information identifying the reason for 
     the denial of the application, including--
       ``(A) any factors that led to a lower score or rank 
     compared to other applicants; and
       ``(B) an identification of any deficiencies in the 
     application.
       ``(g) Administrative Costs and Technical Assistance.--A 
     State through which the Administrator makes a grant to an 
     eligible nonprofit organization under this section shall 
     receive a 5 percent increase in the amount of the grant--
       ``(1) for administrative costs; and
       ``(2) to provide technical assistance to the eligible 
     nonprofit organization.
       ``(h) Application Update and Improvements.--
       ``(1) Public meeting.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     date of enactment of the Safe Kids, Safe Schools, Safe 
     Communities Act of 2022, the Administrator shall hold a 
     public meeting to solicit recommendations on updating the 
     application process for a grant under this section.
       ``(2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of the Safe Kids, Safe Schools, Safe Communities 
     Act of 2022, the Administrator shall--
       ``(A) develop recommendations to modernize and update the 
     application process for a grant under this section, which 
     shall include considerations for--
       ``(i) establishing a more streamlined application process;
       ``(ii) establishing greater uniformity in the application 
     process among all applicants and the guidance provided to 
     States through

[[Page S3091]]

     which the Administrator makes grants to eligible nonprofit 
     organizations under this section;
       ``(iii) ensuring that the application template is 
     compatible with the latest or most widely used version of 
     software programs; and
       ``(iv) coordinating with the Administrator of General 
     Services to ensure that applications submitted under this 
     section are compatible across online platforms of the Federal 
     Government; and
       ``(B) submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report 
     that includes--
       ``(i) the recommendations developed under subparagraph (A); 
     and
       ``(ii) a description of whether the recommendations 
     developed under subparagraph (A) are consistent with feedback 
     received at the public meeting required under paragraph (1).
       ``(3) Implementation of recommendations.--Not later than 
     270 days after the date of enactment of the Safe Kids, Safe 
     Schools, Safe Communities Act of 2022, the Administrator 
     shall implement the recommendations developed under paragraph 
     (2)(A).
       ``(4) Paperwork reduction act waiver.--For the purpose of 
     meeting the deadlines established under this subsection, the 
     Secretary may waive the application of subchapter I of 
     chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, to the 
     requirements of this subsection.''; and
       (4) in subsection (i), as so redesignated--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$75 million for each of 
     fiscal years 2020 through 2024'' and inserting ``$540,000,000 
     for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2030'';
       (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) High-risk urban areas.--Of the amounts made available 
     to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2023 
     through 2030, not less than 0.35 percent shall be for grants 
     to eligible recipients located in each high-risk urban area 
     receiving grants under section 2003.
       ``(3) Salaries and expenses.--Of the amounts made available 
     to carry out this section in any fiscal year, the 
     Administrator may transfer to another account of the Federal 
     Emergency Management Agency not more than 3 percent for 
     salaries and administrative expenses, including any necessary 
     expenses to provide feedback or technical assistance to 
     applicants for a grant under this section in accordance with 
     subsection (g).''.

     SEC. 24. LUKE AND ALEX SCHOOL SAFETY ACT.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Amendment.--Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:

     ``SEC. 2220D. FEDERAL CLEARINGHOUSE ON SCHOOL SAFETY BEST 
                   PRACTICES.

       ``(a) Establishment.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, in coordination with the 
     Secretary of Education, the Attorney General, and the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall establish a 
     Federal Clearinghouse on School Safety Best Practices (in 
     this section referred to as the `Clearinghouse') within the 
     Department.
       ``(2) Purpose.--The Clearinghouse shall be the primary 
     resource of the Federal Government to identify and publish 
     online through SchoolSafety.gov, or any successor website, 
     the best practices and recommendations for school safety for 
     use by State and local educational agencies, institutions of 
     higher education, State and local law enforcement agencies, 
     health professionals, and the general public.
       ``(3) Personnel.--
       ``(A) Assignments.--The Clearinghouse shall be assigned 
     such personnel and resources as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate to carry out this section.
       ``(B) Detailees.--The Secretary of Education, the Attorney 
     General, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may 
     detail personnel to the Clearinghouse.
       ``(4) Exemptions.--
       ``(A) Paperwork reduction act.--Chapter 35 of title 44, 
     United States Code (commonly known as the `Paperwork 
     Reduction Act') shall not apply to any rulemaking or 
     information collection required under this section.
       ``(B) Federal advisory committee act.--The Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply for the 
     purposes of carrying out this section.
       ``(b) Clearinghouse Contents.--
       ``(1) Consultation.--In identifying the best practices and 
     recommendations for the Clearinghouse, the Secretary may 
     consult with appropriate Federal, State, local, Tribal, 
     private sector, and nongovernmental organizations.
       ``(2) Criteria for best practices and recommendations.--The 
     best practices and recommendations of the Clearinghouse 
     shall, at a minimum--
       ``(A) involve comprehensive school safety measures, 
     including threat prevention, preparedness, protection, 
     mitigation, incident response, and recovery to improve the 
     safety posture of a school upon implementation;
       ``(B) include any evidence or research rationale supporting 
     the determination of the Clearinghouse that the best practice 
     or recommendation under subparagraph (A) has been shown to 
     have a significant effect on improving the health, safety, 
     and welfare of persons in school settings, including--
       ``(i) relevant research that is evidence-based, as defined 
     in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
     of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801), supporting the best practice or 
     recommendation;
       ``(ii) findings and data from previous Federal or State 
     commissions recommending improvements to the safety posture 
     of a school; or
       ``(iii) other supportive evidence or findings relied upon 
     by the Clearinghouse in determining best practices and 
     recommendations to improve the safety posture of a school 
     upon implementation; and
       ``(C) include information on Federal grant programs for 
     which implementation of each best practice or recommendation 
     is an eligible use for the program.
       ``(3) Past commission recommendations.--To the greatest 
     extent practicable, the Clearinghouse shall present, as 
     appropriate, Federal, State, local, Tribal, private sector, 
     and nongovernmental organization issued best practices and 
     recommendations and identify any best practice or 
     recommendation of the Clearinghouse that was previously 
     issued by any such organization or commission.
       ``(c) Assistance and Training.--The Secretary may produce 
     and publish materials on the Clearinghouse to assist and 
     train educational agencies and law enforcement agencies on 
     the implementation of the best practices and recommendations.
       ``(d) Continuous Improvement.--The Secretary shall--
       ``(1) collect for the purpose of continuous improvement of 
     the Clearinghouse--
       ``(A) Clearinghouse data analytics;
       ``(B) user feedback on the implementation of resources, 
     best practices, and recommendations identified by the 
     Clearinghouse; and
       ``(C) any evaluations conducted on implementation of the 
     best practices and recommendations of the Clearinghouse; and
       ``(2) in coordination with the Secretary of Education, the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Attorney 
     General--
       ``(A) regularly assess and identify Clearinghouse best 
     practices and recommendations for which there are no 
     resources available through Federal Government programs for 
     implementation; and
       ``(B) establish an external advisory board, which shall be 
     comprised of appropriate State, local, Tribal, private 
     sector, and nongovernmental organizations, including 
     organizations representing parents of elementary and 
     secondary school students, to--
       ``(i) provide feedback on the implementation of best 
     practices and recommendations of the Clearinghouse; and
       ``(ii) propose additional recommendations for best 
     practices for inclusion in the Clearinghouse.
       ``(e) Parental Assistance.--The Clearinghouse shall produce 
     materials to assist parents and legal guardians of students 
     with identifying relevant Clearinghouse resources related to 
     supporting the implementation of Clearinghouse best practices 
     and recommendations.''.
       (2) Technical amendments.--The table of contents in section 
     1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
     296; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 2220C the following:

``Sec. 2220D. Federal Clearinghouse on School Safety Best Practices.''.
       (b) Notification of Clearinghouse.--
       (1) Notification by the secretary of education.--The 
     Secretary of Education shall provide written notification of 
     the publication of the Federal Clearinghouse on School Safety 
     Best Practices (referred to in this subsection and subsection 
     (c) as the ``Clearinghouse''), as required to be established 
     under section 2220D of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as 
     added by subsection (a) of this section, to--
       (A) every State and local educational agency; and
       (B) other Department of Education partners in the 
     implementation of the best practices and recommendations of 
     the Clearinghouse, as determined appropriate by the Secretary 
     of Education.
       (2) Notification by the secretary of homeland security.--
     The Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide written 
     notification of the publication of the Clearinghouse, as 
     required to be established under section 2220D of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a) of 
     this section, to--
       (A) every State homeland security advisor;
       (B) every State department of homeland security; and
       (C) other Department of Homeland Security partners in the 
     implementation of the best practices and recommendations of 
     the Clearinghouse, as determined appropriate by the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security.
       (3) Notification by the secretary of health and human 
     services.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
     provide written notification of the publication of the 
     Clearinghouse, as required to be established under section 
     2220D of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by 
     subsection (a) of this section, to--
       (A) every State department of public health; and
       (B) other Department of Health and Human Services partners 
     in the implementation of the best practices and 
     recommendations of the Clearinghouse, as determined 
     appropriate by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

[[Page S3092]]

       (4) Notification by the attorney general.--The Attorney 
     General shall provide written notification of the publication 
     of the Clearinghouse, as required to be established under 
     section 2220D of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added 
     by subsection (a) of this section, to--
       (A) every State department of justice; and
       (B) other Department of Justice partners in the 
     implementation of the best practices and recommendations of 
     the Clearinghouse, as determined appropriate by the Attorney 
     General.
       (c) Grant Program Review.--
       (1) Federal grants and resources.--The Secretary of 
     Education, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary 
     of Health and Human Services, and the Attorney General shall 
     each--
       (A) review grant programs administered by their respective 
     agency and identify any grant program that may be used to 
     implement best practices and recommendations of the 
     Clearinghouse;
       (B) identify any best practices and recommendations of the 
     Clearinghouse for which there is not a Federal grant program 
     that may be used for the purposes of implementing the best 
     practice or recommendation as applicable to the agency; and
       (C) periodically report any findings under subparagraph (B) 
     to the appropriate committees of Congress.
       (2) State grants and resources.--The Clearinghouse shall, 
     to the extent practicable, identify, for each State--
       (A) each agency responsible for school safety in the State, 
     or any State that does not have such an agency designated;
       (B) any grant program that may be used for the purposes of 
     implementing best practices and recommendations of the 
     Clearinghouse; and
       (C) any resources other than grant programs that may be 
     used to assist in implementation of best practices and 
     recommendations of the Clearinghouse.
       (d) Rules of Construction.--
       (1) Waiver of requirements.--Nothing in this section or the 
     amendments made by this section shall be construed to create, 
     satisfy, or waive any requirement under--
       (A) title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 
     (42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.);
       (B) the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.);
       (C) title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 
     2000d et seq.);
       (D) title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 
     1681 et seq.); or
       (E) the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et 
     seq.).
       (2) Prohibition on federally developed, mandated, or 
     endorsed curriculum.--Nothing in this section or the 
     amendments made by this section shall be construed to 
     authorize any officer or employee of the Federal Government 
     to engage in an activity otherwise prohibited under section 
     103(b) of the Department of Education Organization Act (20 
     U.S.C. 3403(b)).

     SEC. 25. REAUTHORIZATION AND EXPANSION OF THE NATIONAL THREAT 
                   ASSESSMENT CENTER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND 
                   SECURITY.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 203 of title 18, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 3056A the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 3056B. Functions of the National Threat Assessment 
       Center of the United States Secret Service

       ``(a) In General.--There is established a National Threat 
     Assessment Center (in this section referred to as the 
     `Center'), to be operated by the United States Secret 
     Service, at the direction of the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security.
       ``(b) Functions.--The functions of the Center shall include 
     the following:
       ``(1) Training in the area of best practices on threat 
     assessment.
       ``(2) Consultation on complex threat assessment cases or 
     programs.
       ``(3) Research on threat assessment and the prevention of 
     targeted violence, consistent with evidence-based standards 
     and existing laws and regulations.
       ``(4) Facilitation of information sharing on threat 
     assessment and the prevention of targeted violence among 
     agencies with protective or public safety responsibilities, 
     as well as other public or private entities.
       ``(5) Development of evidence-based programs to promote the 
     standardization of Federal, State, and local threat 
     assessments, best practices in investigations involving 
     threats, and the prevention of targeted violence.
       ``(c) Safe School Initiative.--In carrying out the 
     functions described in subsection (b), the Center shall 
     establish a national program on targeted school violence 
     prevention, focusing on the following activities:
       ``(1) Research.--The Center shall--
       ``(A) conduct research into targeted school violence and 
     evidence-based practices in targeted school violence 
     prevention, including school threat assessment; and
       ``(B) publish the findings of the Center on the public 
     website of the United States Secret Service.
       ``(2) Training.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Center shall develop and offer 
     training courses on targeted school violence prevention to 
     agencies with protective or public safety responsibilities 
     and other public or private entities, including local 
     educational agencies.
       ``(B) Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this section, the Center shall establish a plan 
     to offer its training and other educational resources to 
     public or private entities within each State.
       ``(3) Coordination with other federal agencies.--The Center 
     shall develop research and training programs under this 
     section in coordination with the Department of Justice, the 
     Department of Education, and the Department of Health and 
     Human Services.
       ``(4) Consultation with entities outside the federal 
     government.--The Center is authorized to consult with State 
     and local educational, law enforcement, and mental health 
     officials and private entities in the development of research 
     and training programs under this section.
       ``(5) Interactive website.--The Center may create an 
     interactive website to disseminate information and data on 
     evidence-based practices in targeted school violence 
     prevention.
       ``(d) Hiring of Additional Personnel.--The Director of the 
     United States Secret Service may hire additional personnel to 
     comply with the requirements of this section, which, if the 
     Director exercises that authority, shall include--
       ``(1) at least 1 employee with expertise in child 
     psychological development; and
       ``(2) at least 1 employee with expertise in school threat 
     assessment.
       ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are 
     authorized to be appropriated to carry out the functions of 
     the Center $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 
     2026.
       ``(f) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the 
     date of enactment of this section, the Director of the Secret 
     Service shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary and 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
     the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary and the 
     Committee on Education and Labor of the House of 
     Representatives a report on actions taken by the United 
     States Secret Service to implement provisions of this 
     section, which shall include--
       ``(1) the number of employees hired (on a full-time 
     equivalent basis);
       ``(2) the number of individuals in each State trained in 
     threat assessment;
       ``(3) the number of school districts in each State trained 
     in school threat assessment or targeted school violence 
     prevention;
       ``(4) information on Federal, State, and local agencies 
     trained or otherwise assisted by the Center;
       ``(5) a formal evaluation indicating whether the training 
     and other assistance provided by the Center is effective;
       ``(6) a formal evaluation indicating whether the training 
     and other assistance provided by the Center was implemented 
     by the school;
       ``(7) a summary of the Center's research activities and 
     findings; and
       ``(8) a strategic plan for disseminating the Center's 
     educational and training resources to each State.
       ``(g) Definitions.--In this section--
       ``(1) the term `evidence-based' means--
       ``(A) strong evidence from at least 1 well-designed and 
     well-implemented experimental study;
       ``(B) moderate evidence from at least 1 well-designed and 
     well-implemented quasi-experimental study; or
       ``(C) promising evidence from at least 1 well-designed and 
     well-implemented correlational study with statistical 
     controls for selection bias;
       ``(2) the term `local educational agency' has the meaning 
     given that term under section 8101 of the Elementary and 
     Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801); and
       ``(3) the term `State' means any State of the United 
     States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
     Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
       ``(h) No Funds To Provide Firearms Training.--None of the 
     funds authorized to be appropriated under this section may be 
     used to train any person in the use of a firearm.
       ``(i) No Effect on Other Laws.--Nothing in this section may 
     be construed to preclude or contradict any other provision of 
     law authorizing training in the use of firearms.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Section 4 of the Presidential Threat Protection Act of 
     2000 (18 U.S.C. 3056 note) is repealed.
       (2) The table of sections for chapter 203 of title 18, 
     United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 3056A the following:

``3056B. Functions of the National Threat Assessment Center of the 
              United States Secret Service.''.

     SEC. 26. STOP GUN CRIMINALS.

       (a) Amendments to the Armed Career Criminal Act.--Section 
     924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
       (A) by striking ``violates subsection'' and inserting the 
     following: ``violates--
       ``(A) subsection'';
       (B) in subparagraph (A), as so designated, by striking 
     ``(g)'';
       (C) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; or' 
     '' and
       (D) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(B) section 922(g) shall be--
       ``(i) fined as provided in this title; and
       ``(ii) except as provided in subsection (e) of this 
     section, imprisoned not less than 5 years and not more than 
     10 years.'';
       (2) in subsection (c)(1)(A)--

[[Page S3093]]

       (A) in clause (i), by striking ``5 years'' and inserting 
     ``7 years'';
       (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``7 years'' and inserting 
     ``10 years''; and
       (C) in clause (iii), by striking ``10 years'' and inserting 
     ``15 years''; and
       (3) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
       ``(e)(1) Whoever knowingly violates section 922(g) and has 
     3 or more previous serious felony convictions for offenses 
     committed on occasions different from one another shall be 
     fined under this title and imprisoned not less than 15 years 
     and not more than 30 years, and, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, the court shall not suspend the sentence 
     of, or grant a probationary sentence to, such person with 
     respect to the conviction under section 922(g).
       ``(2) In this subsection--
       ``(A) the term `offense punishable by imprisonment for a 
     statutory maximum term of not less than 10 years' includes an 
     offense (without regard to the application of any sentencing 
     guideline, statutory criterion, or judgment that may provide 
     for a shorter period of imprisonment within the statutory 
     sentencing range) for which the statute provides for a range 
     in the period of imprisonment that may be imposed at 
     sentencing the maximum term of which is not less than 10 
     years; and
       ``(B) the term `serious felony conviction' means--
       ``(i) any conviction by a court referred to in section 
     922(g)(1) for an offense that, at the time of sentencing, was 
     an offense punishable by imprisonment for a statutory maximum 
     term of not less than 10 years; or
       ``(ii) any group of convictions for which a court referred 
     to in section 922(g)(1) imposed in the same proceeding or in 
     consolidated proceedings a total term of imprisonment of not 
     less than 10 years, regardless of how many years of that 
     total term the defendant served in custody.''.
       (b) Applicability.--
       (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section 
     relating to offenses committed by an individual who has 3 or 
     more previous serious felony convictions (as defined in 
     subsection (e) of section 924 of title 18, United States 
     Code, as amended by this section) shall apply to any offense 
     committed after the date of enactment of this Act by an 
     individual who, on the date on which the offense is 
     committed, has 3 or more previous serious felony convictions.
       (2) Rule of construction.--This section and the amendments 
     made by this section shall not be construed to create any 
     right to challenge a sentence imposed under subsection (e) of 
     section 924 of title 18, United States Code.

     SEC. 27. AMENDMENTS TO ENHANCE CERTAIN PENALTIES.

       Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (i) and inserting the following:
       ``(1)(A) A person who knowingly violates section 922(u), or 
     attempts to do so, shall be fined under this title, 
     imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.
       ``(B) In the case of a violation described in subparagraph 
     (A) that occurs during the commission of--
       ``(i) a burglary, the term of imprisonment shall be not 
     less than 3 years; or
       ``(ii) a robbery, the term of imprisonment shall be not 
     less than 5 years.
       ``(2) In this subsection--
       ``(A) the term `burglary' means the unlawful entry into, or 
     remaining in, the business premises of a licensed importer, 
     licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer with the intent to 
     commit a crime; and
       ``(B) the term `robbery' has the meaning given the term in 
     section 1951(b).''; and
       (2) in subsection (m), by inserting ``or attempts to do 
     so,'' after ``or licensed collector,''.

     SEC. 28. SECURING SCHOOLS.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Appropriation.--There are authorized to be 
     appropriated, and there are appropriated, to the Secretary of 
     Education to carry out subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the 
     Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     7111), $2,560,000,000 for fiscal years 2023 to 2032.
       (2) School security.--The Secretary of Education shall use 
     50 percent of the funds appropriated under paragraph (1) to 
     carry out clause (v) of section 4104(b)(3)(B) of the 
     Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     7114(b)(3)(B)).
       (b) Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.--
     Section 4104 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
     1965 (20 U.S.C. 7114) is amended in subsection (b)(3)(B)--
       (1) in clause (iii), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (2) by inserting after clause (iv) the following:
       ``(v) improving school conditions for student learning, by 
     enabling local educational agencies to use funds available 
     under subsection (a)(3) for the purpose of planning and 
     designing school buildings and facilities, installing 
     infrastructure, and implementing technology or other 
     measures, that strengthen security on school premises, which 
     may include--

       ``(I) controlling access to school premises or facilities, 
     through the use of metal detectors, or other measures, or 
     technology, with evidence-based effectiveness (to the extent 
     the State involved determines that such evidence is 
     reasonably available), which may include--

       ``(aa) secured campus external gate or locked doors or 
     check-in points;
       ``(bb) active shooter alert systems;
       ``(cc) access control;
       ``(dd) internal door locks;
       ``(ee) peepholes for classroom doors;
       ``(ff) school site alarm and protection systems;
       ``(gg) metal detectors or x-ray machines (including 
     portable);
       ``(hh) door locking mechanisms and access control doors;
       ``(ii) increased lighting on school grounds;
       ``(jj) emergency call boxes;
       ``(kk) two-way radios;
       ``(ll) emergency alerts;
       ``(mm) surveillance cameras or systems and infrastructure 
     (such as poles and wiring);
       ``(nn) software costs and warranties;
       ``(oo) fencing and gating; and
       ``(pp) emergency generators to provide back-up power for 
     phone systems, critical lighting, and essential outlets;

       ``(II) implementing any technology or measure, or 
     installing any infrastructure, to cover and conceal students 
     within the school during crisis situations;
       ``(III) implementing technology to provide coordination 
     with law enforcement and notification to relevant law 
     enforcement and first responders during such a situation, 
     which shall include--

       ``(aa) emergency planning and preparation;
       ``(bb) emphasis on a school safety plan with buy in from 
     all elements of the school community, including board 
     members, employees, students, parents, law enforcers, 
     government and business leaders, the media, and local 
     residents;
       ``(cc) school implementation of threat assessment programs;
       ``(dd) development of district-based mandatory incident 
     reporting systems;
       ``(ee) establishment of local school safety advisory groups 
     (including parents, families, judges, first responders, 
     health and human service professionals, and mental health 
     professionals);
       ``(ff) evidence-based training for school resource 
     officers, school personnel, and students to prevent student 
     violence to enable them to recognize and quickly respond to 
     warning signs;
       ``(gg) development and operations of anonymous reporting 
     systems;
       ``(hh) evidence-based school threat assessment and crisis 
     intervention teams;
       ``(ii) programs to facilitate coordination with local law 
     enforcement;
       ``(jj) liability and insurance for school districts;
       ``(kk) trauma-informed training for school staff on 
     responses to active shooter situations; and
       ``(ll) community engagement for planning and implementing 
     safety policies and procedures;

       ``(IV) implementing any technology or measure, including 
     hiring school security officers, or installing any 
     infrastructure, with evidence-based effectiveness (to the 
     extent the State involved determines that such evidence is 
     reasonably available) to increase the safety of school 
     students and staff;
       ``(V) implementing any technology or measure, or installing 
     any infrastructure, for school safety reinforcement, 
     including bullet-resistant doors and windows; and
       ``(VI) implementing any technology or system that would 
     reduce the time needed to disseminate official information to 
     parents regarding the safety of their children during and 
     immediately following a crisis;''.

     SEC. 29. IMPROVING SCHOOL SECURITY THROUGH THE COPS ON THE 
                   BEAT PROGRAM.

       Section 1701(b) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10381(b)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (22), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (23), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting a semicolon; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(24) to pay salaries and expenses of school resource 
     officers at public, charter, and private elementary schools 
     and secondary schools (as such terms are defined under 
     section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
     1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801)); and
       ``(25) to improve physical school security at public, 
     charter, and private elementary schools and secondary schools 
     (as such terms are defined under section 8101 of the 
     Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     7801)) by obtaining security equipment to protect students in 
     schools and equip law enforcement officers responding to 
     school security issues and installing physical structure 
     improvements, including--
       ``(A) fencing, external gates, door locks, and check-in 
     points, to establish a secured campus;
       ``(B) active shooter alert systems;
       ``(C) access controls;
       ``(D) internal door locks;
       ``(E) school site alarm and protection systems;
       ``(F) metal detector or x-ray machines (including portable 
     machines);
       ``(G) ballistic safety equipment for schools and responding 
     law enforcement officers;
       ``(H) increased lighting on school grounds;
       ``(I) emergency call boxes;
       ``(J) two-way radios;
       ``(K) emergency alert systems;
       ``(L) surveillance cameras or systems, including 
     infrastructure for such systems such as poles and wiring;

[[Page S3094]]

       ``(M) software costs and warranties; and
       ``(N) emergency generators to provide back-up power for 
     phone systems, critical lighting, and essential outlets.''.

     SEC. 30. STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH.

       (a) Student Access to Mental Health Program Fund.--
       (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
       (A) Eligible school.--The term ``eligible school'' means a 
     school in which the lowest grade at the school is not lower 
     than grade 6 and the highest grade at the school is not 
     higher than grade 12.
       (B) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of Education.
       (2) Student access to mental health program fund.--
       (A) In general.--From the funds made available to carry out 
     section 2001 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 
     U.S.C. 3401 note), $10,000,000,000 shall be transferred to 
     establish the ``Student Access to Mental Health Program 
     Fund'', to remain available through September 30, 2031. The 
     Secretary shall use amounts available in such Fund to award 
     grants to States, from allocations under subparagraph (B), to 
     enable the States to support the salary of a mental health 
     professional in eligible schools located in the State.
       (B) Allocation.--From the amounts available in the Fund 
     established under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall make 
     an allocation to each State in the same proportion as the 
     number of eligible schools located in the State.
       (C) Partnership.--
       (i) In general.--A State awarded a grant under this 
     subsection shall comply with the following:

       (I) The State shall use the grant funds to cover the cost 
     of the salary, which shall be not more than $55,000, for 10 
     years for a mental health professional to serve eligible 
     schools located in the State. Such mental health professional 
     shall serve not more than 5 eligible schools in any school 
     year by rotating among the schools for not less than 1 day a 
     week at each such school.
       (II) The State shall expend non-Federal funds to pay for 
     the other costs of recruitment, training, and benefits for 
     each such mental health professional, and any other expenses 
     related to such employment.

       (ii) Conditions of grants.--A State awarded a grant under 
     this subsection shall require that each eligible school 
     served by the grant--

       (I) provide to the parents of any student enrolled in the 
     school who has not reached age 19 who meets with a mental 
     health professional employed at the school with all 
     counseling records and mental health assessments for such 
     student;
       (II) not teach Critical Race Theory or include Critical 
     Race Theory in any school program; and
       (III) not advocate for abortion or abortion services in any 
     form.

       (b) Funds for Programs.--The unobligated balance of funds 
     made available to carry out sections 2021 and 6002 of the 
     American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2) shall be 
     transferred to, and evenly divided among, the following 
     programs:
       (1) Project AWARE State Educational Agency Grant Program 
     carried out by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
       (2) Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grant Program 
     carried out by the Secretary of Education.
       (3) Community Mental Health Services Block Grant Program 
     carried out by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
       (4) Children's Mental Health Initiative of the Substance 
     Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
       (c) Best Practices.--
       (1) ESEA definitions.--In this subsection, the terms 
     ``elementary school'' and ``secondary school'' have the 
     meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary 
     and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
       (2) Development and dissemination of best practices .--Not 
     later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
     the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
     Services Administration, the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services, and the Secretary of Education shall work in 
     consultation to--
       (A) develop best practices for identifying warning signs of 
     mental health problems with students and identify warning 
     signs for teachers and administrator that a student is at 
     high-risk for violence, specifically for a mass shooting;
       (B) develop best practices for identifying warning signs of 
     mental health problems with children and identify warning 
     signs for individuals who work at a social service agency 
     that a child under the age of 18 is at high-risk for 
     violence, specifically for a mass shooting; and
       (C) disseminate the best practices developed under 
     subparagraphs (A) and (B) to each elementary school and 
     secondary school in the United States, and publish the best 
     practices on a publicly accessible website of the Department 
     of Education and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
     Services Administration.
       (d) GAO Study.--
       (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall conduct a study on how many elementary schools 
     and secondary schools in the United States have a mental 
     health provider for students, how many students take 
     advantage of the mental health services, the main causes for 
     students to access the services.
       (2) ESEA definitions.--In this subsection, the terms 
     ``elementary school'' and ``secondary school'' have the 
     meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary 
     and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).

     SEC. 31. AUTHORIZATION AND APPROPRIATIONS OF FUNDS.

       The unobligated balance of funds made available to carry 
     out section 18003 of division B of the CARES Act (Public Law 
     116-136; 134 Stat. 565), section 313 of the Coronavirus 
     Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 
     (division M of Public Law 116-260; 134 Stat. 1929), and 
     section 2001 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 
     U.S.C. 3401 note) shall be transferred to the Secretary to be 
     used to carry out this Act in an amount not to exceed 
     $38,000,000,000.

     SEC. 32. NO FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ABORTIONS.

       (a) In General.--No funds authorized or appropriated by 
     this act, and none of the funds in any trust fund to which 
     funds are authorized or appropriated by this act, shall be 
     expended for any abortion or counseling that results in 
     encouraging, facilitating, or referral for an abortion.
       (b) Health Benefits Coverage.--No funds authorized or 
     appropriated by this act, and none of the funds in any trust 
     fund to which funds are authorized or appropriated this act, 
     shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes 
     coverage of abortion.
       (c) Exceptions.--The limitations established in paragraphs 
     (a) and (b) shall not apply to an abortion--
       (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
     incest; or
       (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
     disorder, physical injury, or physical illness, including a 
     life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from 
     the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a 
     physician, place the woman in danger of death unless an 
     abortion is performed.

                          ____________________



