
[Pages S3645-S3646]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

  SA 5164. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 4346, making appropriations for Legislative Branch 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; 
which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ____. CRITICAL MINERAL DEVELOPMENT.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Critical mineral.--The term ``critical mineral'' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 7002(a) of the Energy 
     Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1606(a)).
       (2) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
     means, as applicable--
       (A) the Secretary of the Interior; or
       (B) the Secretary of Agriculture.
       (b) Review.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, each Secretary concerned shall 
     complete a review of all land under the jurisdiction of the 
     Secretary concerned that is subject to an administrative 
     withdrawal from mineral development.
       (2) Critical minerals.--
       (A) In general.--In carrying out the review under paragraph 
     (1), the Secretary concerned shall use data of the United 
     States Geological Survey and any other relevant Federal 
     agencies to determine whether any land identified under that 
     paragraph contains any critical mineral.
       (B) Solicitation of comments.--In carrying out subparagraph 
     (A), the Secretary concerned shall hold a comment period for 
     private sources to share data regarding whether any land 
     identified under paragraph (1) contains any critical mineral.
       (c) List.--At the end of the 90-day period described in 
     paragraph (1) of subsection (b), each Secretary concerned 
     shall submit to Congress a report containing a comprehensive 
     list of all land identified as subject to an administrative 
     withdrawal from mineral development, including information on 
     whether the land contains any critical mineral, as determined 
     under paragraph (2) of that subsection.
       (d) Rescission.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
     which the Secretary concerned submits the report under 
     subsection (c), the administrative withdrawals for all land 
     determined under subsection (b)(2) to contain any critical 
     mineral shall be rescinded.
       (e) Automatic Withdrawal.--With respect to any parcel of 
     land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned that 
     is subject to an administrative withdrawal from mineral

[[Page S3646]]

     development, if the Secretary does not submit a report under 
     subsection (c) with respect to that parcel by the deadline 
     described in subsection (b)(1), the administrative withdrawal 
     for that parcel shall automatically be rescinded.
                                 ______



