
[Pages S3646-S3647]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

  SA 5168. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 4346, making appropriations for Legislative Branch 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; 
which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. REGULATORY OVERSIGHT AND REVIEW TASK FORCE.

       (a) Establishment.--There is established a task force to be 
     known as the ``Regulatory Oversight and Review Task Force'' 
     (referred to in this section as the ``Task Force'').
       (b) Membership.--
       (1) In general.--The Task Force shall be composed of--
       (A) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, 
     who shall serve as the Chairperson of the Task Force and 
     shall be a non-voting, ex officio member of the Task Force;
       (B) 1 representative of the Office of Information and 
     Regulatory Affairs, who shall be a non-voting, ex officio 
     member of the Task Force; and
       (C) 16 individuals from the private sector, of whom--
       (i) 4 shall be appointed by the majority leader of the 
     Senate;
       (ii) 4 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the 
     Senate;
       (iii) 4 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (iv) 4 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the 
     House of Representatives.
       (2) Qualifications of private sector members.--
       (A) Expertise.--Each member of the Task Force appointed 
     under paragraph (1)(C) shall be an individual with expertise 
     in Federal regulatory policy, Federal regulatory compliance, 
     economics, law, or business management.
       (B) Small business concerns.--Not fewer than 2 of the 
     members of the Task Force appointed under each clause of 
     paragraph (1)(C) shall be representatives of a small business 
     concern, as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 632).
       (C) Political affiliation.--Not more than 2 of the members 
     of the Task Force appointed under each clause of paragraph 
     (1)(C) may be affiliated with the same political party.
       (c) Consultation With GAO.--In carrying out its functions 
     under this section, the Task Force shall consult with the 
     Government Accountability Office.
       (d) No Compensation.--A member of the Task Force may not 
     receive any compensation for serving on the Task Force.
       (e) Staff.--
       (1) Designation of existing staff.--The Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget may designate employees of 
     the Office of Management and Budget, including employees of 
     the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, as 
     necessary to help the Task Force carry out its duties under 
     this section.
       (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall 
     be construed to authorize the provision of any additional 
     compensation to an employee designated under that paragraph.
       (f) Evaluation of Regulations and Guidance.--
       (1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``covered 
     entity'' has the meaning given the term in section 9901 of 
     the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (15 U.S.C. 4651).
       (2) Evaluation.--The Task Force shall evaluate, and provide 
     recommendations for modification, consolidation, 
     harmonization, or repeal of, Federal regulations or guidance 
     that--
       (A) exclude or otherwise inhibit competition, causing a 
     covered entity of the United States to be less competitive 
     with global competitors;
       (B) create barriers to entry for covered entities of the 
     United States;
       (C) increase the operating costs for domestic manufacturing 
     of semiconductors;
       (D) impose substantial compliance costs and other burdens 
     on covered entities of the United States, making those 
     entities less competitive with global competitors;
       (E) impose burdensome and lengthy permitting processes and 
     requirements for covered entities of the United States; or
       (F) restrict domestic mining, including the mining of 
     critical minerals used for the manufacturing of 
     semiconductors.
       (g) Website.--The Task Force shall establish and maintain a 
     user-friendly, public-facing website to be--
       (1) a portal for the submission of written comments under 
     subsection (i); and
       (2) a gateway for reports and key information.
       (h) Duty of Federal Agencies.--Upon request of the Task 
     Force, a Federal agency shall provide applicable documents 
     and information to help the Task Force carry out its 
     functions under this section.
       (i) Written Recommendations.--
       (1) In general.-- Not later than 15 days after the first 
     meeting of the Task Force, the Task Force shall initiate a 
     process to solicit and collect written recommendations 
     regarding regulations or guidance described in subsection (f) 
     from the general public, interested parties, Federal 
     agencies, and other relevant entities.
       (2) Manner of submission.--The Task Force shall allow 
     written recommendations under paragraph (1) to be submitted 
     through--
       (A) the website of the Task Force;
       (B) regulations.gov;
       (C) the mail; or
       (D) other appropriate written means.
       (3) Publication.--The Task Force shall publish each 
     recommendation submitted under paragraph (1)--
       (A) in the Federal Register;
       (B) on the website of the Task Force; and
       (C) on regulations.gov.
       (4) Public outreach.--In addition to soliciting and 
     collecting written recommendations under paragraph (1), the 
     Task Force shall conduct public outreach and convene focus 
     groups in geographically diverse areas throughout the United 
     States to solicit feedback and public comments regarding 
     regulations or guidance described in subsection (f).
       (5) Review and consideration.--The Task Force shall review 
     the information received under paragraphs (1) and (4) and 
     consider including that information in the reports and 
     special message required under subsections (j) and (k), 
     respectively.
       (j) Reports.--
       (1) In general.--The Task Force shall submit quarterly and 
     annual reports to Congress on the findings of the Task Force 
     under this section.
       (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
     shall--
       (A) analyze the Federal regulations or guidance identified 
     in accordance with subsection (f); and
       (B) provide recommendations for modifications, 
     consolidation, harmonization, and repeal of the regulations 
     or guidance described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
       (3) Majority vote required.--The Task Force may only 
     include a finding or recommendation in a report submitted 
     under paragraph (1) if a majority of the members of the Task 
     Force have approved the finding or recommendation.
       (k) Special Message to Congress.--
       (1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``covered 
     resolution'' means a joint resolution--
       (A) the matter after the resolving clause of which contains 
     only--
       (i) a list of some or all of the regulations or guidance 
     that were recommended for repeal in a special message 
     submitted to Congress under paragraph (2); and
       (ii) a provision that immediately repeals the listed 
     regulations or guidance upon enactment of the joint 
     resolution; and
       (B) upon which Congress completes action before the end of 
     the first period of 60 calendar days after the date on which 
     the special message described in subparagraph (A)(i) of this 
     paragraph is received by Congress.
       (2) Submission.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than the first day on which both 
     Houses of Congress are in session after May 1 of each year, 
     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
     submit to Congress, on behalf of the Task Force, a special 
     message that--
       (i) details each regulation or guidance document that the 
     Task Force recommends for repeal; and
       (ii) explains why each regulation or guidance document 
     should be repealed.
       (B) Delivery to house and senate; printing.--Each special 
     message submitted under subparagraph (A) shall be--
       (i) delivered to the Clerk of the House of Representatives 
     and the Secretary of the Senate; and
       (ii) printed in the Congressional Record.
       (3) Procedure in house and senate.--
       (A) Referral.--A covered resolution shall be referred to 
     the appropriate committee of the House of Representatives or 
     the Senate, as the case may be.

[[Page S3647]]

       (B) Discharge of committee.--If the committee to which a 
     covered resolution has been referred has not reported the 
     resolution at the end of 25 calendar days after the 
     introduction of the resolution--
       (i) the committee shall be discharged from further 
     consideration of the resolution; and
       (ii) the resolution shall be placed on the appropriate 
     calendar.
       (4) Floor consideration in the house.--
       (A) Motion to proceed.--
       (i) In general.--When the committee of the House of 
     Representatives has reported, or has been discharged from 
     further consideration of, a covered resolution, it shall at 
     any time thereafter be in order (even though a previous 
     motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to 
     proceed to the consideration of the resolution.
       (ii) Privilege.--A motion described in clause (i) shall be 
     highly privileged and not debatable.
       (iii) No amendment or motion to reconsider.--An amendment 
     to a motion described in clause (i) shall not be in order, 
     nor shall it be in order to move to reconsider the vote by 
     which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
       (B) Debate.--
       (i) In general.--Debate in the House of Representatives on 
     a covered resolution shall be limited to not more than 2 
     hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring 
     and those opposing the resolution.
       (ii) No motion to reconsider.--It shall not be in order in 
     the House of Representatives to move to reconsider the vote 
     by which a covered resolution is agreed to or disagreed to.
       (C) No motion to postpone consideration or proceed to 
     consideration of other business.--In the House of 
     Representatives, motions to postpone, made with respect to 
     the consideration of a covered resolution, and motions to 
     proceed to the consideration of other business, shall not be 
     in order.
       (D) Appeals from decisions of chair.--An appeal from the 
     decision of the Chair relating to the application of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives to the procedure 
     relating to a covered resolution shall be decided without 
     debate.
       (5) Floor consideration in the senate.--
       (A) Motion to proceed.--
       (i) In general.--Notwithstanding Rule XXII of the Standing 
     Rules of the Senate, when the committee of the Senate to 
     which a covered resolution is referred has reported, or has 
     been discharged from further consideration of, a covered 
     resolution, it shall at any time thereafter be in order (even 
     though a previous motion to the same effect has been 
     disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the 
     resolution and all points of order against the covered 
     resolution are waived.
       (ii) Division of time.--A motion to proceed described in 
     clause (i) is subject to 4 hours of debate divided equally 
     between those favoring and those opposing the covered 
     resolution.
       (iii) No amendment or motion to postpone or proceed to 
     other business.--A motion to proceed described in clause (i) 
     is not subject to--

       (I) amendment;
       (II) a motion to postpone; or
       (III) a motion to proceed to the consideration of other 
     business.

       (B) Floor consideration.--
       (i) General.--In the Senate, a covered resolution shall be 
     subject to 10 hours of debate divided equally between those 
     favoring and those opposing the covered resolution.
       (ii) Amendments.--In the Senate, no amendment to a covered 
     resolution shall be in order, except an amendment that 
     strikes from or adds to the list required under paragraph 
     (1)(A)(i) a regulation or guidance document recommended for 
     repeal by the Task Force.
       (iii) Motions and appeals.--In the Senate, a motion to 
     reconsider a vote on final passage of a covered resolution 
     shall not be in order, and points of order, including 
     questions of relevancy, and appeals from the decision of the 
     Presiding Officer, shall be decided without debate.
       (6) Receipt of resolution from other house.--If, before 
     passing a covered resolution, one House receives from the 
     other a covered resolution--
       (A) the covered resolution of the other House shall not be 
     referred to a committee and shall be deemed to have been 
     discharged from committee on the day on which it is received; 
     and
       (B) the procedures set forth in paragraph (4) or (5), as 
     applicable, shall apply in the receiving House to the covered 
     resolution received from the other House to the same extent 
     as those procedures apply to a covered resolution of the 
     receiving House.
       (7) Rules of the house of representatives and the senate.--
     Paragraphs (3) through (6) and this paragraph are enacted by 
     Congress--
       (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, respectively, and as such are 
     deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but 
     applicable only with respect to the procedures to be followed 
     in the House in the case of covered resolutions, and 
     supersede other rules only to the extent that they are 
     inconsistent with such other rules; and
       (B) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the 
     procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
     to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that 
     House.
       (l) Funding.--
       (1) No additional amounts authorized.--No additional 
     amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
     section.
       (2) Other funding.--The Task Force shall use amounts 
     otherwise available to the Office of Management and Budget to 
     carry out this section.
                                 ______



